Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
The female cat reaches sexual maturity within 6 to 10 months; most veterinarians suggest spaying the female at 5 months, before her first heat period. The male cat usually reaches sexual maturity between 9 and 12 months.
Unlike humans, cats are usually lefties. Studies indicate that their left paw is typically their dominant paw.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
A female cat can be referred to as a molly or a queen, and a male cat is often labeled as a tom.
On average, a cat will sleep for 16 hours a day.
There are approximately 100 breeds of cat.
According to Hebrew legend, Noah prayed to God for help protecting all the food he stored on the ark from being eaten by rats. In reply, God made the lion sneeze, and out popped a cat.
The claws on the cat’s back paws aren’t as sharp as the claws on the front paws because the claws in the back don’t retract and, consequently, become worn.
Kittens who are taken along on short, trouble-free car trips to town tend to make good passengers when they get older. They get used to the sounds and motions of traveling and make less connection between the car and the visits to the vet.
Two members of the cat family are distinct from all others: the clouded leopard and the cheetah. The clouded leopard does not roar like other big cats, nor does it groom or rest like small cats. The cheetah is unique because it is a running cat; all others are leaping cats. They are leaping cats because they slowly stalk their prey and then leap on it.
A cat’s jaw can’t move sideways, so a cat can’t chew large chunks of food.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
Cats are the world's most popular pets, outnumbering dogs by as many as three to one
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Sir Isaac Newton is credited with creating the concept for the pet door that many cats use today to travel outdoors.
In the 1750s, Europeans introduced cats into the Americas to control pests.
